{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20040\viewh14100\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 So far I've changed propionate uptake, corrected the gene association\
of ASNS1 (one of the "isozymes" isn't), tried to correct fatty acid\
synthesis so that fabF-1 and fabG-1 are redundant with fabF-2 and\
fabG-2, and added the reactions for butyrate utilization.\
\
See\
~mprice/data/mutagenesis/MR1/MR1_model_changes\
\
The format is clunky but I hope self-explanatory; the comment field\
gives a brief explanation of each change. I seen now that doing this\
is kinda a pain and probably error prone -- besides the clunkiness of\
the format, I need to look up every reaction (I've been using KEGG)\
and I've also had to add a few compounds.\
\
Maybe if you're going to be making changes too we should put it in\
source control? Or you can just email me any deltas you need to make.\
\
I'm not sure how (or if) biomass changes should go in this format so\
I'm keeping that separate. Here are some suggestions to try:\
\
Remove GLYCOGEN\
Remove LPS_SO\
\
Remove branched- and/or odd-carbon- fatty acids. This turns out to be\
complicated because these are in the PASYN_SO_AEROBIC reaction for\
making fatty acid precursors. More precisely, the reaction converts a\
mixture of ACP-fatty-acid precursors into 12DAG3P which is\
1,2,-diacylglycerol,3-phosphate with generic fatty acids. So my\
suggestion is to some components from the PASYN_SO_AEROBIC reaction\
but you need to add others to compensate so it is still balanced in\
ACPs.\
\
Remove the branched and odd from reaction describing the synthesis of 12DAG3P, but must rebalance stoichiometry.\
\
Branched components:\
FA11ACP Iso-C17:0 ACP\
FA13ACP Iso-C13:0 ACP\
FA1ACP \'a0Iso-C14:0 ACP\
FA3ACP \'a0iso-C15:0 ACP\
FA6ACP \'a0Iso-C16:0 ACP\
\
Straight but odd #C:\
HPDACP \'a0heptadecanoyl-ACP (n-C17:0ACP)\
HPDEACP heptadecenoyl ACP (C17:1ACP)\
PDACP \'a0 pentadecanoyl-ACP (n-C15:0ACP)\
PDEACP \'a0pentadecenoyl-ACP (C15:1ACP)\
\
Straight and even #C:\
HDEACP \'a0Hexadecenoyl-ACP\
OCDACP \'a0Octadecanoyl-ACP (n-C18:0ACP)\
OCTEACP Octadecenoyl-ACP (n-C18:1ACP)\
PALMACP Palmitoyl-ACP (n-C16:0ACP)\
\
I looked a bit more at the model results. There are a bunch of\
essential genes which grow because they are required to make essential\
cofactors. So, these should be added to the biomass equation:\
\
hemeb (heme B)\
sheme (siroheme)\
ubq8 (ubiquinone-8)\
btn (biotin)\
pdx5p (pyridoxine 5'-phosphate)\
thmpp (thiamin diphosphate)\
\
[For anaerobic experiments we would add menaquinone instead of ubq8]\
\
I'm also confused as to why the pentose phosphate pathway (e.g.,\
SO3456, transaldolase) is not predicted to be essential in defined\
conditions but I don't have a suggestion of what to change.}